Data analysis on Items of Fear & Hunger game:

My project for DSA210 will be about collecting and visualizing data as well as applying machine learning for items for the RPG Maker game Fear & Hunger. There are variety of items and character conditions in the game but I will be focusing on weapons and status effects. My main motivation for maknig this project is for the new players of the game to be able to deduct and get a basic idea of how useful the items they get in the game ad how dangerous the ailments they get from the enemies, since this game holds no tutorial or whatsoever and you have to spend countless hours just to learn the game.

There is a basic set of data for each item available at Fear & Hunger Wiki, but the data in there isn’t enough to list weapons about how useful or rare they are or how dangerous the status effects are, since item distribution of the game is divided into three: availability on guaranteed spots, availability on enemies and spawned under RNG. Therefore I will search the web and forums to create another dataset to create “useful” set for weapons and “danger level” for status effects which will be created and added by me to enrich the already existing dataset.

Rarity of weapons and danger level for status effects will be calculated mathematically. For example, usefullness of weapons will be calculated according to: how many other weapons with same atk value exist in the game and how many different ways you can get the item. For example, meat cleaver will be one of the least useful weapons because it has 30 atk and can be obtained from 2 types of enemies that exist abundently in the game, so the uselessness of it will be calculated by how many weapons there are above 30 atk and number of enemy types times number of enemies existing in the game holding the weapon.

Danger level of status effects will also be calculated by mathematical comparison. main indicators will be: how many different ways you can get the status effect, how many ways there exist to cure the status effect and availability of the cures for status effects. for example bleed is pretty common but there are variety of resources to cure it so based on the calculation :number of enemies that can apply bleed + number of traps that can apply bleed – number of resources to cure bleed will give a danger level for the bleed effect. Also, for limb losses, both leg loss and arm loss are uncurable, however number of ways to lose an arm is greater than losing a leg, so arm loss will have higher danger level compared to bleed. Of course the dataset used for items to cure a status effect will be linear. If its uncurable its value will be 0, if we can find it with RNG spawn locations it will be +1 and if we can obtain it by guarantee we will ad 1x(number of guarantee obtaining places) and depending how high this number is, the status ailment will get less dangerous.

Machine learning will be used to calculate which weapons are most or least useful and which status effects are most or least dangerous by the end of calculations on the datasets.
